
# FreeCAD overview and architecture

First of all, thanks to the original developers (**Jürgen Riegel, Werner Mayer, Yorik van Havre**), for sharing this great artwork freely. FreeCAD is released under the LGPL license, free for commercial usage with dynamic linkage.

## Introduction to FreeCAD

The birth of FreeCAD is marked by the release of version 0.0.1 by [Jürgen Riegel](https://wiki.freecadweb.org/User:Jriegel) on October 29, 2002.

The FreeCAD [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FreeCAD) page.

> FreeCAD is basically a collage of different powerful libraries, the most important being openCascade, for managing and constructing geometry, Coin3D to display that geometry, Qt to put all this in a nice Graphical User Interface, and Python to give full scripting/macro functions.
>
> —[Jürgen Riegel](https://wiki.freecadweb.org/User:Jriegel), *[Who is behind FreeCad?](http://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=295)*

https://wiki.freecadweb.org/History

*The FreeCAD project was started by me in January 2001, as a so called GOM (Graphical Object Modeler), with the idea to use Qt, Python and Cas.CADE,*

## Key features

- Cross platform: Windows, Linux, and MacOS X
- Console mode which can be imported by python module
- Parametrized modeling, scripting, and macro support, just like commercial CAD tool
- Modular architecture with various plugins: CAD, CAM, Robot, Meshing, FEM, etc...
- Supporting plenty of standard 2D and 3D CAD exchange file types, STL, STEP, etc...
- File type *.FCstd - zip file container of many different types of information, such as geometry, scripts or thumbnail icons

[example of embedding FreeCAD python module into Blender](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Embedding_FreeCAD)

see [FreeCAD official website feature list](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Feature_list) for detailed and updated features
https://github.com/joelgraff/pivy-trackers


## Software architecture

### Key software libraries

See FreeCAD source code structure in [Chapter 2](2.FreeCAD_source_code_structure.md)

*standing on giant's shoulder*

- OpenCASCADE as CAD kernel
- OpenInventor/Coin3D/pivy for 3D scene rendering
- Qt and 'Qt for Python' (aka PySide2) for the graphical user interface (GUI)
- Python scripting and wrapping: PyCXX, swig, boost.python
- Other powerful software libraries like Xerces XML, boost

The geometry algorithms using OpenCASCADE will be discussed in [Chapter 7](7.FreeCAD_CAD_modules.md).


### Mixed Python and c++

* Python scripting in console mode and python-based macro recording in GUI mode
* All FreeCAD classes are derived from this *BaseClass*, connected with *BaseClassPy*
* c++11 is not extensively used before 0.17
* c++ templates are not heavily used, but `FeatureT<>` make `DocumentObject, ViewProvider` extensible in Python
* FreeCAD not tied to Qt system unless GUI is used,  `Boost::signal` is used in command line mode: FreeCADCmd
* `std::string`(UTF8) is used internally, using `QString  getString(){QString.fromUtf8(s.c_str())}`. This removes unnecessary coupling to Qt.
* c++ is used for most of time consuming task (threading model) and to avoid bottleneck of Global Interpreter Lock

Mixing c++ and Python in module development will be discussed in [Chapter 5](5.FreeCAD_Python_wrapping.md).

### GPL code will not be included into installer

<https://github.com/yorikvanhavre/Draft-dxf-importer>

Current FreeCAD policy is to include only LGPL software and no GPL by default. Mentioned DXF import-export libraries were downloaded by default. On DXF import-export operation in the past but Debian didn't like that and FreeCAD changed in a way that the user has to manually enable (Opt-In) the download.

Open **Draft** workbench and after that select *Edit -> Preferences*. Under *Import-Export -> DXF / DWG* tab, enable *Automatic update*. After that FreeCAD will download mentioned libraries on first DXF import-export operation and it should work. If it does not work, restart FreeCAD and try again.

### Funding condition

It is still unofficially driven by community, developed by developers in free time. A foundation is being setup as of 2022.


## How 3D model are rendered

The geometry that appears in the 3D views of FreeCAD are rendered by the Coin3D library. Coin3D is an implementation of the OpenInventor standard, which relieves the developer of manually using the low-level OpenGL API.

See [FreeCAD wiki on OpenInventor Scenegraph](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Scenegraph). Some other examples of 3D rendering:

[Civil engineering feature implementation (Transportation Engineering)](https://www.forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=8&t=22277&p=332557#p332557)

### OpenInventor in FreeCAD's ViewProvider

FreeCAD itself features several tools to see or modify openInventor code. For example, the following Python code will show the openInventor representation of a selected object:

```python
obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.ActiveObject
viewprovider = obj.ViewObject
print viewprovider.toString()
```

### Pivy: Coin3D's Python wrapping

**pivy** is Python wrapper of Coin3D C++ lib, via SWIG. A new `SoPyScript` Node is added to include Python script directly

[pivy trackers](https://github.com/joelgraff/pivy-trackers) - A small python library of pivy/coin3D-based objects for rendering lines / nodes at the scenegraph level for user interface feedback. Implemented originally as a part of the FreeCAD Trails Workbench.

### Selection of 3D visualization libraries

OpenCASCADE, FreeCAD's CAD kernel, did not render 3D object to screen until recently. Since FreeCAD was born in 2002, it had to come with its own rendering code. Currently, there are several 3D rendering libraries based on OpenGL. For a list of Qt compatible ones, c.f. <https://wiki.qt.io/Using_3D_engines_with_Qt>. 3D gaming engines could also be used to render 3D objects, examples are OGRE(Object-Oriented Graphics Rendering Engine), Unreal or Unity.

The choice of Open Inventor as FreeCAD's rendering engine is based on software license and performance consideration. Open Inventor, originally IRIS Inventor, is a C++ object oriented, retained mode, 3D graphics API designed by SGI to provide a higher layer of programming for OpenGL. Its main goals are better programmer convenience and efficiency. Open Inventor is free and open-source software, subject to the requirements of the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL), version 2.1, in Aug 2000.

Coin3D implements the same API but does not share source code with Open Inventor. It is a clean room implementation compatible with the Open Inventor v2.1 API. The company Kongsberg ended development of Coin3D in 2011 and released the code under the BSD 3-clause license. It is possible to draw object in OpenInventor Scene from Python, via Coin3D's python wrapper *pivy*, see <https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Pivy>.

VTK, is another open source and cross-platform visualization library, which ParaView is based on. Interoperation is possible, see
[Method for converting output from the VTK pipeline into Inventor nodes](https://www.evl.uic.edu/scharver/vtkoiv.html). From 0.17 and beyond, VTK pipeline is added to the FEM workbench.

[pivy trackers](https://github.com/joelgraff/pivy-trackers) - A small python library of pivy/coin3D-based objects for rendering lines / nodes at the scenegraph level for user interface feedback. Implemented originally as a part of the FreeCAD Trails Workbench.


### Discussion of 3D rendering library selection on FreeCAD Forum

The author's questions on 3D rendering library selection posted on the FreeCAD Forum:

> I browse OpenCASCADE doc[1], showing graph of OpenCASCADE source code architecture. It is similar with FreeCAD. Why FreeCAD develops its own Foundation Class, Document controller, Object Tree Structure, etc. There are lot of overlapping.

> 1) Is that because the license problem? OpenCASCADE is not LGPL compatible during FC startup? Or OpenCASCADE can not support python wrapping function?

> 2) OpenCASCADE has visualization for 3D rendering, why OpenInventor/3D is used instead? According to the doc, OCC user interaction is not very strong, but still provide the selection.


[1] <http://www.opencascade.com/content/overview>

[2] <https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=12821&p=102683#p102683> by "ickby"

reply from one key developer:

>> First of all FreeCAD works without OpenCASCADE. That is an important feature, not everything needs geometric modeling, for example the Robot Workbench. OCC is only incorporated by the Part Workbench.

>> Of course one could have based FreeCAD completely on OCC and reuse OCAF and the visualization, however, there are quite some points against it:

>> 1. The OCAF overlap is minimal: only some stuff from App could have been reused, the whole GUI handling would have been needed anyway. And to integrate all of the currently available functionality basically the same amount of work would have been needed. According to Jriegel initially FreeCAD based its document structure on OCAF, but it was found to be lacking and then replaced with a custom implementation. And this makes adoptions and enhancements way easier, see for example the recent expression integration.

>> 2. The OpenCASCADE visualization was lacking at best over all the years. They put in much work in the last time which significantly improved it, but this was too late for FreeCAD. And the most important issue: OpenCASCADE visualization is highly tailored towards visualization of their types. A general interface for arbitrary stuff is not available and hence it is not suited for FreeCAD, where many workbenches draw all kinds of things via the nice openInventor API.

## Roadmap of FreeCAD

It is important to track the roadmap of FreeCAD as it is still under heavy development.
<https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/Development_roadmap>

### Keep updated with main components:

The Main external components are upgrade gradually, like OpenInventor, pyCXX.

- C++11 is adopted since version 0.17. C++17 latest standard library could replace boost::FileSystem in the future
- Migration from Qt4 to Qt5 is straight-forward (Qt4All.h  Switch from Qt4->Qt5) in C++, but depending on availability of LGPL version of Qt5 python wrapping: PySide2
- Python3 support is under implementation, should be completed in version 0.19 as python2 will retired in Jan 2020.
- OpenCASCADE(OCC) and VTK is migrating to 7.0 in late 2016, that is significant upgrade breaking back incompatibility.

Transitioning from OpenGL to Vulkan will not happen in the future, while OpenGL should be available for a long time (10 years).

### C++11

C++ is NOT an easy language but targeting high performance, you need to manage memory manually and there are a lot of pitfalls, see <http://horstmann.com/cpp/pitfalls.html>. Even experienced C++ programmer will find themselves not mastering C++ fully. Exception safety is an especially difficult concept to grasp.

Some common pitfalls of C++ are listed in the appendix.

C++11 is almost a brad new language, or next generation c++. It added some extra keywords like "explicit, overload/final, noexcept" to avoid some unintended mistakes and also introduce new features and extra STL functionality like lambda and std::function, constexpr, enum class, smart pointer, auto type derivation, std::thread, atomic, regex etc.

### Pyside 2 project for Qt 5.x

Official LGPL python wrappers for Qt 5.x, called pyside2 or Qt for Python have been released with Qt 5.12. 

> The Pyside 2 project aims to provide a complete port of PySide to Qt 5.x. The development started on GitHub in May 2015. The project managed to port Pyside to Qt 5.3, 5.4 & 5.5. During April 2016 The Qt Company decided to properly support the port (see details).
