
# FEM Module Source Code Analysis

Acknowledge of Fem module developers: Bernd, PrzemoF, etc., of course, three core developers.

## Introduction of Fem Module

This is module is usable in v0.16 (install netgen and calculix first)

Basically, the whole process is to mesh the solid part into small element, add boundary condition and material infortion, write all these information into case file that external solver can accept, launch the external solver (only Calculix is supported for the time being), finally load result from solver output file and show result in FreeCAD workbench. 

[Official wiki on Fem installation](http://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=FEM%20Install)

[Official wiki on Fem module](http://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=FEM_Module)

[Official wiki on Fem tutorial](http://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=FEM_tutorial)


For example, error message "CalculiX ccx binary not found! Please set it manually in FEM preferences." is solved by

For Ubuntu 64bit linux, ccx_2.10 single file executable can be downloaded from <http://www.dhondt.de/>
the dependency `libgfortran.so`  can be made available from symbolic link:
```bash
ln -s <source_path> /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libgfortran.so
```

**********************************************

## How is Fem module designed

- FemAnalysis: DocumentObjectGroup derived container hosting the FEM specific DocumentObjects
- Part: geometry to be solved
- Material: physial properties for the materail to be sovled
- FemConstrait: node, edge, face, volume constraint for Fem problem
- FemMesh: meshing is based on Salome Mesh (SMesh) library, currently netgen only, which is general meshing tool for Fem and CFD. 
- FemSolver: Calculix Fem solver is the first usable solver in 0.16, while z88 is in shape in 0.17
- FemResult: ViewProviderFemMesh can color stress in FemMesh, displacement is represented in moved FemMesh
- Post processing: VTK pipeline implemented in 0.17
 
In CMakeList.txt,  Netgen is not activated by default. It should be activated by cmake/cmake-gui.

### FemAppPy.cpp: file open and export

Fem module specific file import and export, this is implemented in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemAppPy.cpp]

```
class Module : public Py::ExtensionModule<Module>
{
public:
    Module() : Py::ExtensionModule<Module>("Fem")
    {
        add_varargs_method("open",&Module::open,
            "open(string) -- Create a new document and a Mesh::Import feature to load the file into the document."
        );
        add_varargs_method("insert",&Module::insert,
            "insert(string|mesh,[string]) -- Load or insert a mesh into the given or active document."
        );
        add_varargs_method("export",&Module::exporter,
            "export(list,string) -- Export a list of objects into a single file."
        );
        add_varargs_method("read",&Module::read,
            "Read a mesh from a file and returns a Mesh object."
        );
        add_varargs_method("show",&Module::show,
            "show(shape) -- Add the shape to the active document or create one if no document exists."
        );
        initialize("This module is the Fem module."); // register with Python
    }
```

### AppFemGui.cpp  `initFemGui()`

functionality of [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp]

- FemGui_Import_methods[]
- load commands defiend in command.cpp,
- workbench and ViewProvider types init(),
- `Base::Interpreter().loadModule('some python modules in Mod/Fem folder')`
- Register preferences pages `new Gui::PrefPageProducer<FemGui::DlgSettingsFemImp> ("FEM");`
- load resource, mainly icons and translation

### Communication of App Object and Gui Object

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDriver.h]
`class TaskDriver : public Gui::TaskView::TaskBox`
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDriver.cpp]


### When python scripts should be loaded

In short, python scripts for Fem should be loaded/imported in `InitGui.py` to avoid cyclic dependency.

see Forum discussion: [cyclic dependency FemCommands and FemGui modules](http://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=18&t=12929)

There seems a cyclic dependency. When you try to load FemCommands.py it internally tries to load FemGui. However, at this stage FemCommands.py is not yet loaded and FemGui also tries to load FemCommands.py.

Then there are two flaws inside initFemGui:

1. Base::Interpreter().loadModule() MUST be inside a try/catch block and in case an exception occurs the initFemGui must be aborted and an import error must be raised. Fixed with git commit abd6e8c438c
2. The FemGui must not be initialized before dependent modules are fully loaded. Fixed with git commit 60c8180079f20

The latter fix currently causes the FemGui not to load any more but that's because of the cyclic dependency. IMO, there are two ways to fix:

1. Do not load any of the Python module inside initFemGui because I don't see why they should be needed there. It's much better to move this to the Initialize() method of the Workbench class (InitGui.py)

2. Alternatively, make sure that the Python modules loaded inside initFemGui does not load FemGui in the global scope but do it locally where it's really needed.


### Selection, SelectionGate and SelectionFilter

todo: This necessity of SelectionGate.py should be explained


********************************************

## Key classes analysis

In the previous chapter, we have discussed workbench related classes and source files, like: 
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemApp.cpp], [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Workbench.h], [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Commands.cpp]
Here, the FEM specific object are analysed. Key classes except FemMesh and FemConstraint are explained.

### [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemAnalysis.h] DocumentObjectGroup

This is the central DocumentObject or Feature in this module. It is a DocumentGroup object, which is a container hosting the other FEM specific DocumentObjects. 
Only Fem related DocumentObject can be dragged into this group, see *ViewProviderFemAnalysis::canDragObject* in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderAnalysis.h].
And any new Fem specific DocumentObject should registered here. 

```
bool ViewProviderFemAnalysis::canDragObject(App::DocumentObject* obj) const
{
    if (!obj)
        return false;
    if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemMeshObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::Constraint::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemSetObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(App::MaterialObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else
        return false;
}
```
It has no 3D representation in Inventor/Coin scenegraph, different from FemMeshObject or Fem::Constraint. It has an Documdent Observer in GUI part. see [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ActiveAnalysisObserver.h]
There is a singleton instance `static ActiveAnalysisObserver* instance();`, from which FemGui.getActiveAnalysis() is possible from python. 

see `void ActiveAnalysisObserver::setActiveObject(Fem::FemAnalysis* fem)`  in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ActiveAnalysisObserver.cpp] for activeView and activeDocument are managed
```
namespace FemGui {

class ActiveAnalysisObserver : public App::DocumentObserver
{
public:
    static ActiveAnalysisObserver* instance();

    void setActiveObject(Fem::FemAnalysis*);
    Fem::FemAnalysis* getActiveObject() const;
```

### [src/Mod/Fem/MechanicalMaterial.py]

Command and TaskPanel classes are implemented in FemWorkBench in Python [src/Mod/Fem/MechanicalMaterial.py]
material definiation  data file  *.FCMat (not XML but ini style, imported by ConfigParser) is located in the Material module [src/Mod/Material/StandardMaterial]
FluidMaterial is not defined, see [OpenFoam material definiation](). Water and air should be defined in another folder, [src/Mod/Material/FluidMaterial]
Both these two type of materils should contain more properties, to support other CAE solver, like Eletromagnitic simulation. 

```
def makeMechanicalMaterial(name):
    '''makeMaterial(name): makes an Material
    name there fore is a material name or an file name for a FCMat file'''
    obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::MaterialObjectPython", name)
    _MechanicalMaterial(obj)
    _ViewProviderMechanicalMaterial(obj.ViewObject)
    # FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.recompute()
    return obj
```

### FemResultObject: a good example to create new object

This class defines necessary proeprty to show result, e.g. contour, in 3D scene.  This class should be extended in python to deal with result from different solver (different result file type).

Bottom-up analysis of this Object:

1. FemResultObject is derived from DocumdentObject with some properties, defined in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.h] 

```
    App::PropertyIntegerList ElementNumbers;
    /// Link to the corresponding  mesh
    App::PropertyLink Mesh;
    /// Stats of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList Stats;
    /// Displacement vectors of analysis
    App::PropertyVectorList DisplacementVectors;
    /// Lengths of displacement vestors of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList DisplacementLengths;
    /// Von Mises Stress values of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList StressValues;
```
implemented in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.cpp].  Most of code is standard, with the defiend properties instantiated in constructor. 


2. ViewProvider: [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderResult.h] and [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderResult.cpp]

3. add Command class and appened to workbench menu in Python

[src/Mod/Fem/_CommandShowResult.py]
```python
class _CommandMechanicalShowResult:
    "the Fem JobControl command definition"
    def GetResources(self):
        return {'Pixmap': 'fem-result',
                'MenuText': QtCore.QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP("Fem_Result", "Show result"),
                'Accel': "S, R",
                'ToolTip': QtCore.QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP("Fem_Result", "Show result information of an analysis")}

    def Activated(self):
        self.result_object = get_results_object(FreeCADGui.Selection.getSelection())

        if not self.result_object:
            QtGui.QMessageBox.critical(None, "Missing prerequisite", "No result found in active Analysis")
            return

        taskd = _ResultControlTaskPanel()
        FreeCADGui.Control.showDialog(taskd)

    def IsActive(self):
        return FreeCADGui.ActiveDocument is not None and results_present()
```
In this class, `sPixmap = "fem-result"` and helper function *get_results_object* is worth of explanation
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Resources]  SVG file naming:  lowercase with module name as suffix, connected with dash

```python
def get_results_object(sel):
    if (len(sel) == 1):
        if sel[0].isDerivedFrom("Fem::FemResultObject"):
            return sel[0]

    for i in FemGui.getActiveAnalysis().Member:
        if(i.isDerivedFrom("Fem::FemResultObject")):
            return i
    return None
```

If implemented in C++, this class must derived from `Command`, see example in  [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Command.cpp]
*DEF_STD_CMD_A* is a macro defined in [src/Gui/Command.h]
```cpp
DEF_STD_CMD_A(CmdFemConstraintFixed);

CmdFemConstraintFixed::CmdFemConstraintFixed()
  : Command("Fem_ConstraintFixed")
{
    sAppModule      = "Fem";
    sGroup          = QT_TR_NOOP("Fem");
    sMenuText       = QT_TR_NOOP("Create FEM fixed constraint");
    sToolTipText    = QT_TR_NOOP("Create FEM constraint for a fixed geometric entity");
    sWhatsThis      = "Fem_ConstraintFixed";
    sStatusTip      = sToolTipText;
    sPixmap         = "fem-constraint-fixed";
}

void CmdFemConstraintFixed::activated(int iMsg)
{
    Fem::FemAnalysis        *Analysis;

    if(getConstraintPrerequisits(&Analysis))
        return;

    std::string FeatName = getUniqueObjectName("FemConstraintFixed");

    openCommand("Make FEM constraint fixed geometry");
    doCommand(Doc,"App.activeDocument().addObject(\"Fem::ConstraintFixed\",\"%s\")",FeatName.c_str());
    doCommand(Doc,"App.activeDocument().%s.Member = App.activeDocument().%s.Member + [App.activeDocument().%s]",Analysis->getNameInDocument(),Analysis->getNameInDocument(),FeatName.c_str());
    updateActive();

    doCommand(Gui,"Gui.activeDocument().setEdit('%s')",FeatName.c_str());
}

bool CmdFemConstraintFixed::isActive(void)
{
    return hasActiveDocument();
}
```
At the end of this file: 
```cpp
void CreateFemCommands(void)
{
    Gui::CommandManager &rcCmdMgr = Gui::Application::Instance->commandManager();
    ...
    rcCmdMgr.addCommand(new CmdFemConstraintFixed());
```

4. TaskView: defined in python: [src/Mod/Fem/_TaskPanelShowResult.py]

5. python script to read result data file: [src/Mod/Fem/ccxFrdReader.py]



## FemConstraint

- DocumentObject: FemConstraint
- ViewProvider: ViewProviderFemConstraint
- TaskPanel and TaskDlg:
- CMakeList.txt: adding those source files into CMakeList.txt
- SVG icon file in researce folder and XML file

Actually drawing is defined in ViewProviderFemConstraint.cpp
```
createSymmetry(sep, HEIGHT, WIDTH);
createPlacement(pShapeSep, b, SbRotation(SbVec3f(0,1,0), ax)); 
// gear , change colorProperty, it is a new , aspect ratio, it is new constraint
```

### FemConstraint: base class for all Constraint Type

FemConstraint is derived from DocumentObject



### ViewProviderFemConstraint: drawing in inventor scene 

This is an DocumentObject with basic 3D Inventor, and a good start point to learn drawing in 3D scence. 
Fem::Constrait is the base class for all the other specific constraints, or boundary conditions, in other domain like CFD. 

`class FemGuiExport ViewProviderFemConstraint : public Gui::ViewProviderGeometryObject`
```cpp
#define CUBE_CHILDREN 1

void ViewProviderFemConstraint::createCube(SoSeparator* sep, const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    SoCube* cube = new SoCube();
    cube->width.setValue(width);
    cube->depth.setValue(length);
    cube->height.setValue(height);
    sep->addChild(cube);
}

SoSeparator* ViewProviderFemConstraint::createCube(const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    SoSeparator* sep = new SoSeparator();
    createCube(sep, width, length, height);
    return sep;
}

void ViewProviderFemConstraint::updateCube(const SoNode* node, const int idx, const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    const SoSeparator* sep = static_cast<const SoSeparator*>(node);
    SoCube* cube = static_cast<SoCube*>(sep->getChild(idx));
    cube->width.setValue(width);
    cube->depth.setValue(length);
    cube->height.setValue(height);
}
```


[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderFemConstraintPressure.h] draws symbol to represent constrain attachment in 3D view scene

### TaskFemConstraint

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraint.h]
`onChange()`: Constraint only record geometry reference, not femCellSet, 
`accept()` add into Analysis
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraintPressure.cpp]
```
#include "moc_TaskFemConstraintPressure.cpp"
```

[/src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraintPressure.h] task panel to select geometry face the pressure constrain is applied to, also the pressure magnitude and direction.



`class TaskFemConstraintPressure : public TaskFemConstraint`

`class TaskDlgFemConstraintPressure : public TaskDlgFemConstraint`  accept/reject/open

***************************************************************************

## FemMesh, based on Salome SMESH

SMESH: Salome Mesh, supporting both FEM and CFD meshing. Python script is possible in Salome platform. 

### Import and export mesh formats

[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMesh.cpp] writeAbiquas mesh, 

FemMesh support only tetra cell? no, but netget seems only support tetradron

### [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMesh.h]

FreeCAD Fem mesh is based on 3party lib: SMESH, the meshing facility used in Salome. This SMESH is powerful but also chanllenging.
It is a deep water zone, just ignore this class if you are not going to extend Fem meshing facility. 

```
SMDS_Mesh
SMESH_Mesh
SMESHDS_Mesh
SMESH_SMDS.hxx
```

Important classes: 
```
class AppFemExport FemMesh : public Data::ComplexGeoData
class AppFemExport FemMeshObject : public App::GeoFeature
class AppFemExport FemMeshShapeObject : public FemMeshObject
class AppFemExport FemMeshShapeNetgenObject : public FemMeshShapeObject  //with Fineness property

class AppFemExport PropertyFemMesh : public App::PropertyComplexGeoData
class HypothesisPy : public Py::PythonExtension<HypothesisPy>
```

### Mesh generation by Tetgen and GMSH

Mesh is generated and updated in  [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskTetParameter.h] 
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDlgMeshShapeNetgen.cpp]

`App::DocumentObjectExecReturn *FemMeshShapeNetgenObject::execute(void)`
it does not call super class method FemMeshShapeObject::compute(), defined in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMeshShapeObject.cpp] which is surface squash mesh

Example of PropertyEnumeration:  Fineness
```
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(Fineness,(2),         "MeshParams",Prop_None,"Fineness level of the mesh");
    Fineness.setEnums(FinenessEnums);
const char* FinenessEnums[]= {"VeryCoarse","Coarse","Moderate","Fine","VeryFine","UserDefined",NULL};
```
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMeshShapeNetgenObject.cpp]

FemMeshShapeNetgenObject.cpp  has no python corresponding object, to set and recompute mesh in python???
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDlgMeshShapeNetgen.cpp]
accept() should have some macro recording code like TaskFemConstraintForce's 
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskTetParameter.h]


Gmsh is supported mainly by Macro, GUI supported Netgen plugin only


### FemSetObject: base class to group submesh

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskCreateNodeSet.cpp] nodeset
```cpp
FemSetObject::FemSetObject()
{
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(FemMesh,(0), "MeshSet link",Prop_None,"MeshSet the set belongs to");
}
```

### FemNodeSet as group of element for constraint 

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskCreateNodeSet.cpp] nodeset


## FemResult and VTK based post-processing pipeline

### FemResult

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/FemResultObject.h] defined several properties to hold data like: Time, Temperature, Displacement,etc. Result mesh can be different from mesh written to solver. It is defined only for solid mechanics, not for fluid dynamics.

This is class has implemented FeatureT<> template, thereby, it can be extended in python into CfdResult for CFD module.

### VTK Pipeline

related files: 

[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostObject.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostPipeline.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostFilter.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostFunction.h]

Task panel and view providers in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui]

It could be thought of miniature paraview pipeline. Implemented in cpp only, perhaps for speed concern.


*****************************************************************************************

## PreferencePage for Fem

related files: 

- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFemImp.h]

```cpp
#include "ui_DlgSettingsFem.h"
#include <Gui/PropertyPage.h>

namespace FemGui {

class DlgSettingsFemImp : public Gui::Dialog::PreferencePage, public Ui_DlgSettingsFemImp
{
    Q_OBJECT

public:
    DlgSettingsFemImp( QWidget* parent = 0 );
    ~DlgSettingsFemImp();

protected:
    void saveSettings();
    void loadSettings();
    void changeEvent(QEvent *e);
};
```
- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFem.ui]

- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFemImp.cpp]

The implementation is surprisingly convenient, just calling  onSave() and onRestore() methods of standard PrefWidget defined in [src/Gui/PrefWidgets.h]

This UI file uses some FreeCAD costumed widgets, e.g.  `<widget class="Gui::PrefCheckBox" name="cb_int_editor">` Those PrefWidgets needs to be registered into QtDesigner. 

In short, You need to compile [src/Tools/plugins/widget] and register that library with Qt-designer in order to get the FreeCAD-specific widgets in Qt-designer."


## Qt specific UI design

### FreeCAD Qt designer plugin installation

excerpt from <http://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=CompileOnUnix#Qt_designer_plugin>

If you want to develop Qt stuff for FreeCAD, you'll need the Qt Designer plugin that provides all custom widgets of FreeCAD. Go to [src/Tools/plugins/widget]

So far we don't provide a makefile -- but calling `qmake plugin.pro` creates it. Once that's done, calling `make`  will create the library libFreeCAD_widgets.so. To make this library known to Qt Designer you have to copy the file to `$QTDIR/plugin/designer`

A practical example is found in forum [How to save preferences or how to setup Qt Designer](http://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?t=10371)
```#include "moc_DlgSettingsFemImp.cpp"```


### MOC (Qt meta object compiling) ui file compiling

Qt ui file for c++ taskpanel need a compilation, it is automated by CMake [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/CMakeList.txt]
```
set(FemGui_MOC_HDRS

...

TaskFemConstraintForce.h
...

)

fc_wrap_cpp(FemGui_MOC_SRCS ${FemGui_MOC_HDRS})

SOURCE_GROUP("Moc" FILES ${FemGui_MOC_SRCS})
```

python script needs not such a compilation, in-situ parse the ui file by `FreeCADGui.PySideUic.loadUi()`. 

```
ui_path = os.path.dirname(__file__) + os.path.sep + "TaskPanelCfdSolverControl.ui"
self.form = FreeCADGui.PySideUic.loadUi(ui_path)
```


