
# FEM Module Source Code Analysis

Acknowledge of Fem module developers: Bernd, PrzemoF, etc., of course, three core developers.

## Introduction of Fem Module

This module is usable in v0.16 (install netgen and calculix first) and extended dramatically to multiple CAE solver support in v0.17.

Basically, the whole process is to mesh the solid part into small element (currently tetragen only), add boundary condition and material information, write all these information into case file that external solver can accept, launch the external solver (only Calculix is supported for the time being), finally load result from solver output file and show result in FreeCAD workbench.

[Official wiki on Fem installation](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/FEM%20Install)

[Official wiki on Fem module](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/FEM_Module)

[Official wiki on Fem tutorial](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/FEM_tutorial)


For example, error message "CalculiX ccx binary not found! Please set it manually in FEM preferences." is solved by

For Ubuntu 64bit linux, ccx_2.10 single file executable can be downloaded from <http://www.dhondt.de/>
the dependency `libgfortran.so`  can be made available from symbolic link:
```bash
ln -s <source_path> /lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libgfortran.so
```

**********************************************

## How is Fem module designed

Although most of the class started with the prefix of "Fem", they works for various CAE application( mechanical, fluidic, electromagnetic).

- FemAnalysis: DocumentObjectGroup derived container hosting the FEM specific DocumentObjects
- Part: geometry to be solved
- FemMaterial: physical properties for the material to be solved
- FemConstrait: variant derived class to apply node, edge, face, volume constraint for CAE problem
- FemMesh: meshing is based on Salome Mesh (SMesh) library, currently netgen only, which is general meshing tool for Fem and CFD.
- FemSolver: Calculix Fem solver is the first usable solver in 0.16, while z88 is in shape in 0.17
- FemResult: ViewProviderFemMesh can color stress in FemMesh, displacement is represented in moved FemMesh
- VTK Post processing: VTK pipeline is implemented in 0.17

In CMakeList.txt,  Netgen is not activated by default. It should be activated by cmake/cmake-gui.

### FemAppPy.cpp: mesh and result file open and export

Fem module specific file types import and export, this is implemented in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemAppPy.cpp]
Various mesh format can be imported and exported, see the list in [FreeCAD wiki for Fem](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/FEM_Module)

```
class Module : public Py::ExtensionModule<Module>
{
public:
    Module() : Py::ExtensionModule<Module>("Fem")
    {
        add_varargs_method("open",&Module::open,
            "open(string) -- Create a new document and a Mesh::Import feature to load the file into the document."
        );
        add_varargs_method("insert",&Module::insert,
            "insert(string|mesh,[string]) -- Load or insert a mesh into the given or active document."
        );
        add_varargs_method("export",&Module::exporter,
            "export(list,string) -- Export a list of objects into a single file."
        );
        add_varargs_method("read",&Module::read,
            "Read a mesh from a file and returns a Mesh object."
        );
        add_varargs_method("show",&Module::show,
            "show(shape) -- Add the shape to the active document or create one if no document exists."
        );
        initialize("This module is the Fem module."); // register with Python
    }
```

### AppFemGui.cpp  `initFemGui()`

functionality of [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp]

- `FemGui_Import_methods[]` all method in python module FemGui should be registered
- load commands defined in command.cpp,
- workbench and ViewProvider types init(),
- `Base::Interpreter().loadModule('some python modules in Mod/Fem folder')`
- Register preferences pages `new Gui::PrefPageProducer<FemGui::DlgSettingsFemImp> ("FEM");`
- load resource, mainly icons and translation

### Communication of App Object and Gui Object

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDriver.h]
`class TaskDriver : public Gui::TaskView::TaskBox`
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDriver.cpp]

### Selection, SelectionGate and SelectionFilter

todo: This necessity of SelectionGate.py should be explained in GUI chapter


### When python scripts should be loaded?

In short, python scripts for Fem should be loaded/imported in `InitGui.py` to avoid cyclic dependency.

see Forum discussion: [cyclic dependency FemCommands and FemGui modules](https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=18&t=12929)

There seems a cyclic dependency. When you try to load FemCommands.py it internally tries to load FemGui. However, at this stage FemCommands.py is not yet loaded and FemGui also tries to load FemCommands.py.

Then there are two flaws inside initFemGui:

1. Base::Interpreter().loadModule() MUST be inside a try/catch block and in case an exception occurs the initFemGui must be aborted and an import error must be raised. Fixed with git commit abd6e8c438c
2. The FemGui must not be initialized before dependent modules are fully loaded. Fixed with git commit 60c8180079f20

The latter fix currently causes the FemGui not to load any more but that's because of the cyclic dependency. IMO, there are two ways to fix:

1. Do not load any of the Python module inside initFemGui because I don't see why they should be needed there. It's much better to move this to the Initialize() method of the Workbench class (InitGui.py)

2. Alternatively, make sure that the Python modules loaded inside initFemGui does not load FemGui in the global scope but do it locally where it's really needed.


********************************************

## Key classes analysis

In the previous chapter, we have discussed workbench related classes and source files, like:
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemApp.cpp], [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Workbench.h], [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Commands.cpp]
Here, the FEM specific object are analysed. Key classes except FemMesh and FemConstraint are explained.

### [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemAnalysis.h] DocumentObjectGroup

This is the container DocumentObject  in this module. It is NOT a DocumentGroup object before the commit (id ce68094, on Oct 2017 by wwmayer, `inherit FemAnalysis from DocumentObjectGroup and remove Member property`, see <https://github.com/FreeCAD/FreeCAD/commit/ce6809415b45d760961eddb58e7c4544b602495a>). After refactering, FemAnalysis is derived from `DocumentObjectGroup` directly, the previous `Member` attribute is replaced by `Group`.

New FemObjects will be inserted by `FemGui.GetActiveAnalhysis().addObject(...)`, instead of python list operation on `Member`.

It accepts drag-and-drop of only FEM specific DocumentObjects. Only Fem related DocumentObject can be dragged into, see *ViewProviderFemAnalysis::canDragObject* in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderAnalysis.h]. And any new Fem specific DocumentObject should registered here.

```
bool ViewProviderFemAnalysis::canDragObject(App::DocumentObject* obj) const
{
    if (!obj)
        return false;
    if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemMeshObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemSolverObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::Constraint::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemSetObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Base::Type::fromName("Fem::FeaturePython")))
        return true;
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(App::MaterialObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
    else
        return false;
}
```
It has no 3D representation in Inventor/Coin scenegraph, different from FemMeshObject or Fem::Constraint. It has an Documdent Observer in GUI part. see [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ActiveAnalysisObserver.h] It is a singleton instance `static ActiveAnalysisObserver* instance();`, from which FemGui.getActiveAnalysis() is possible from python.

see `void ActiveAnalysisObserver::setActiveObject(Fem::FemAnalysis* fem)`  in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ActiveAnalysisObserver.cpp] for activeView and activeDocument are managed
```
namespace FemGui {

class ActiveAnalysisObserver : public App::DocumentObserver
{
public:
    static ActiveAnalysisObserver* instance();

    void setActiveObject(Fem::FemAnalysis*);
    Fem::FemAnalysis* getActiveObject() const;
```

### [src/Mod/Fem/FemMaterial.py]

"MechanicalMaterial" is refactored into a general "FemMaterial"

Command and TaskPanel classes are implemented in FemWorkBench in Python [src/Mod/Fem/FemMaterial.py]
material definiation  data file  *.FCMat (not XML but ini style, imported by ConfigParser) is located in the Material module [src/Mod/Material/StandardMaterial]
FluidMaterial is not defined. Water and air should be defined in another folder, [src/Mod/Material/FluidMaterial]
Both these two type of materials should contain more properties, to support other CAE solver, like Eletromagnetic simulation.

```
def makeMechanicalMaterial(name):
    '''makeMaterial(name): makes an Material
    name thereecfore is a material name or an file name for a FCMat file'''
    obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("App::MaterialObjectPython", name)
    _MechanicalMaterial(obj)
    if FreeCAD.GuiUp:
        _ViewProviderMechanicalMaterial(obj.ViewObject)
    return obj
```

### FemResultObject: a good example to create new object


[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/FemResultObject.h] defined several properties to hold data like: Time, Temperature, Displacement,etc. Result mesh can be different from mesh written to solver. It is defined only for solid mechanics, not for fluid dynamics.

This is class has implemented FeatureT<> template, thereby, it can be extended in python into CfdResult for CFD module.

This class defines necessary property to show result, e.g. contour, in 3D scene.  This class should be extended in python to deal with result from different solver (different result file type).

Idealy, this class should be a container without any domain specific properties, just like FemSolverObject, mechanical field properties should be made in Python

Bottom-up analysis of this Object:

1. FemResultObject is derived from DocumdentObject with some properties, defined in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.h]

A list of property can be shared by CFD or Mechancial analysis
implemented in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.cpp].  Most of code is standard, with the defined properties instantiated in constructor.

```
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(Mesh,(0), "General",Prop_None,"Link to the corresponding mesh");
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(NodeNumbers,(0), "Data",Prop_None,"Numbers of the result nodes");
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(Stats,(0), "Fem",Prop_None,"Statistics of the results");
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(Time,(0), "Fem",Prop_None,"Time of analysis incement");
```

Mechancial analysis should be moved into [src/Mod/Fem/FemResult.py]
```
    App::PropertyIntegerList ElementNumbers;
    /// Link to the corresponding  mesh
    App::PropertyLink Mesh;
    /// Stats of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList Stats;
    /// Displacement vectors of analysis
    App::PropertyVectorList DisplacementVectors;
    /// Lengths of displacement vestors of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList DisplacementLengths;
    /// Von Mises Stress values of analysis
    App::PropertyFloatList StressValues;
```

2. ViewProvider: [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderResult.h] and [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderResult.cpp]

3. add Command class and appended to workbench menu in Python

[src/Mod/Fem/_CommandShowResult.py]
```python
class _CommandMechanicalShowResult:
    "the Fem JobControl command definition"
    def GetResources(self):
        return {'Pixmap': 'fem-result',
                'MenuText': QtCore.QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP("Fem_Result", "Show result"),
                'Accel': "S, R",
                'ToolTip': QtCore.QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP("Fem_Result", "Show result information of an analysis")}

    def Activated(self):
        self.result_object = get_results_object(FreeCADGui.Selection.getSelection())

        if not self.result_object:
            QtGui.QMessageBox.critical(None, "Missing prerequisite", "No result found in active Analysis")
            return

        taskd = _ResultControlTaskPanel()
        FreeCADGui.Control.showDialog(taskd)

    def IsActive(self):
        return FreeCADGui.ActiveDocument is not None and results_present()
```
In this class, `sPixmap = "fem-result"` and helper function *get_results_object* is worth of explanation
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Resources]  SVG file naming:  lowercase with module name as suffix, connected with dash

```python
def get_results_object(sel):
    if (len(sel) == 1):
        if sel[0].isDerivedFrom("Fem::FemResultObject"):
            return sel[0]

    for i in FemGui.getActiveAnalysis().Member:
        if(i.isDerivedFrom("Fem::FemResultObject")):
            return i
    return None
```



4. TaskView: defined in python: [src/Mod/Fem/_TaskPanelShowResult.py]

5. python script to read result data file: [src/Mod/Fem/ccxFrdReader.py] and other solver result writer

### FemResult to VTK pipeline

[src/Mod/Fem/App/PropertyPostDataObject.cpp]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostObject.cpp]

loading FemResult into pipe happens in Command Class `CmdFemPostPipelineFromResult`

```
//poly data is the only data we can visualize, hence every post processing object needs to expose it
class AppFemExport FemPostObject : public App::GeoFeature
{

        Fem::PropertyPostDataObject Data;
}

class AppFemExport FemPostFilter : public Fem::FemPostObject
{

        App::PropertyLink Input;

}

class AppFemExport FemPostPipeline : public Fem::FemPostFilter
{
    App::PropertyLinkList       Filter;
    App::PropertyLink           Functions;
    App::PropertyEnumeration    Mode;
}


class AppFemExport FemPostFunction : public App::DocumentObject
```

***************************************************************************


## FemConstraint

- DocumentObject: FemConstraint is derived from
- ViewProvider: ViewProviderFemConstraint
- TaskPanel and TaskDlg:
- CMakeList.txt: adding those source files into CMakeList.txt
- SVG icon file in researce folder and XML file

Actually drawing is defined in ViewProviderFemConstraint.cpp
```
createSymmetry(sep, HEIGHT, WIDTH);
createPlacement(pShapeSep, b, SbRotation(SbVec3f(0,1,0), ax));
// gear , change colorProperty, it is a new , aspect ratio, it is new constraint
```

### FemConstraint: base class for all Constraint Type

FemConstraint is derived from DocumentObject


### ViewProviderFemConstraint: drawing in inventor scene

This is an DocumentObject with basic 3D Inventor, and a good start point to learn drawing in 3D scence.
Fem::Constraint is the base class for all the other specific constraints, or boundary conditions, in other domain like CFD.

`class FemGuiExport ViewProviderFemConstraint : public Gui::ViewProviderGeometryObject`
```cpp
#define CUBE_CHILDREN 1

void ViewProviderFemConstraint::createCube(SoSeparator* sep, const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    SoCube* cube = new SoCube();
    cube->width.setValue(width);
    cube->depth.setValue(length);
    cube->height.setValue(height);
    sep->addChild(cube);
}

SoSeparator* ViewProviderFemConstraint::createCube(const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    SoSeparator* sep = new SoSeparator();
    createCube(sep, width, length, height);
    return sep;
}

void ViewProviderFemConstraint::updateCube(const SoNode* node, const int idx, const double width, const double length, const double height)
{
    const SoSeparator* sep = static_cast<const SoSeparator*>(node);
    SoCube* cube = static_cast<SoCube*>(sep->getChild(idx));
    cube->width.setValue(width);
    cube->depth.setValue(length);
    cube->height.setValue(height);
}
```


[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderFemConstraintPressure.h] draws symbol to represent constrain attachment in 3D view scene

### TaskFemConstraint

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraint.h]
`onChange()`: Constraint only record geometry reference, not femCellSet,
`accept()` add into Analysis
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraintPressure.cpp]
```
#include "moc_TaskFemConstraintPressure.cpp"
```

[/src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraintPressure.h] task panel to select geometry face the pressure constrain is applied to, also the pressure magnitude and direction.



`class TaskFemConstraintPressure : public TaskFemConstraint`

`class TaskDlgFemConstraintPressure : public TaskDlgFemConstraint`  accept/reject/open

***************************************************************************

## Import and export file formats

[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMesh.cpp] `write()` and `read()`  support export and import various meshing formats,
see wiki <https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/index.php?title=FEM_Mesh>
The meshing IO python API, as used by the FreeCAD GUI, is implemented in [src/Mod/Fem/App/AppFemPy.cpp] and compiled into `open()`  and `export` Fem.so python module.

The import and export file types are registered in [src/Mod/Fem/Init.py]. Various mesh types are auto detected by file suffix, and corresponding mesh import and export c++ API are called accordingly. For example, VTK meshing and result import and export are implemented by the author, thus the following code is added into [src/Mod/Fem/Init.py].


```
if("BUILD_FEM_VTK" in FreeCAD.__cmake__):
    FreeCAD.addImportType("FEM CFD Unstructure Mesh (*.vtk *.vtu)", "Fem")
    FreeCAD.addExportType("FEM CFD Unstructure Mesh (*.vtk *.vtu)", "Fem")
    FreeCAD.addImportType("FEM results (*.vtk *.vtu)", "importVTKResults")
    FreeCAD.addExportType("FEM CFD Result in VTK format (*.vtk *.vtu)", "importVTKResults")
```

The API `FreeCAD.addImportType` takes two parameters, the first is the text hint/filter used by FileDialog during import and export, the second is the python module defined the file import and export functions such as `open(), export(), insert()`. Since the VTK mesh or vtk result can not be distinguished from file suffix, another new python module [src/Mod/Fem/importVTKResults.py] is needed.

This module can serve as a template for new file types support. NB,the file file name `importVTKResults.py` also contains the export API.

## FemMesh, based on Salome SMESH

SMESH: Salome Mesh, supporting both FEM and CFD meshing. Python script is possible in Salome platform.

### working with external meshing tools

It is possible to set up boundary condition with imported mesh, given the original part is still in the document file. Unfortunately, boundary facets are not importable into FreeCAD (new data structure is needed to hold such data within mesh), thereby boundary face mesh is extracted by distance detection of meshcell with 3D part surfaces in FreeCAD.

Procedure:
1. export geometry to external meshing tool like Ansys and Salome for advanced function like boundary layer setup, which is not available in FreeCAD yet.
2. mesing and export into a file format supported by FreeCAD import (vtk, unv) or supported by CAE solver directly for case setup.
3. imported back to FreeCAD for FEM/CFD case setup within FreeCAD, then following the FEM module working procedure


### [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMesh.h]

FreeCAD Fem mesh is based on 3party lib: SMESH, the meshing facility used in Salome. This SMESH is powerful but also chanllenging.
It is a deep water zone, just ignore this class if you are not going to extend Fem meshing facility.

```
SMDS_Mesh
SMESH_Mesh
SMESHDS_Mesh
SMESH_SMDS.hxx
```

Important classes:
```
class AppFemExport FemMesh : public Data::ComplexGeoData
class AppFemExport FemMeshObject : public App::GeoFeature
class AppFemExport FemMeshShapeObject : public FemMeshObject
class AppFemExport FemMeshShapeNetgenObject : public FemMeshShapeObject  //with Fineness property

class AppFemExport PropertyFemMesh : public App::PropertyComplexGeoData
class HypothesisPy : public Py::PythonExtension<HypothesisPy>
```
### [src/Mod/Fem/FemMeshTools.py]

### Mesh generation by Tetgen in C++

Mesh is generated and updated in  [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskTetParameter.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDlgMeshShapeNetgen.cpp]

`App::DocumentObjectExecReturn *FemMeshShapeNetgenObject::execute(void)`
it does not call super class method FemMeshShapeObject::compute(), defined in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMeshShapeObject.cpp] which is surface squash mesh

Example of PropertyEnumeration:  Fineness
```
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(Fineness,(2),         "MeshParams",Prop_None,"Fineness level of the mesh");
    Fineness.setEnums(FinenessEnums);
const char* FinenessEnums[]= {"VeryCoarse","Coarse","Moderate","Fine","VeryFine","UserDefined",NULL};
```
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemMeshShapeNetgenObject.cpp]

FemMeshShapeNetgenObject.cpp  has no python corresponding object, to set and recompute mesh in python???
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskDlgMeshShapeNetgen.cpp]
accept() should have some macro recording code like TaskFemConstraintForce's
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskTetParameter.h]


### Mesh generation by Gmsh in Python

With Gmsh, it is possible to specify mesh length scale for subfeatures like faces/edges.
FemMeshRegion.py and FemMeshGroup.py

[src/Mod/Fem/FemMeshGmsh.py]
```
def makeFemMeshGmsh(name="FEMMeshGMSH"):
    '''makeFemMeshGmsh(name): makes a GMSH FEM mesh object'''
    obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("Fem::FemMeshObjectPython", name)
    _FemMeshGmsh._FemMeshGmsh(obj)
    if FreeCAD.GuiUp:
        import _ViewProviderFemMeshGmsh
        _ViewProviderFemMeshGmsh._ViewProviderFemMeshGmsh(obj.ViewObject)
    return obj

```

Gmsh is supported mainly by [src/Mod/Fem/_FemMeshGmsh.py] which defines various properties for gmsh settigns.

[src/Mod/Fem/FemMeshToolGmsh.py] will find the executable binary `gmsh` and write input file `*.geo`, which contains all info needed to generate a mesh

```
def create_mesh(self):
	print("\nWe gone start GMSH FEM mesh run!")
	print(' Part to mesh: Name --> ' + self.part_obj.Name + ', Label --> ' + self.part_obj.Label + ', ShapeType --> ' + self.part_obj.Shape.ShapeType)
	print(' CharacteristicLengthMax: ' + str(self.clmax))
	print(' CharacteristicLengthMin: ' + str(self.clmin))
	print(' ElementOrder: ' + self.order)
	self.get_dimension()
	self.get_tmp_file_paths()
	self.get_gmsh_command()
	self.get_group_data()
	self.write_part_file() #self.part_obj.Shape.exportBrep(self.temp_file_geometry)
	self.write_geo()  # gmsh input file, containing all info needed  for gen mesh
	error = self.run_gmsh_with_geo()  # gmsh  *.geo
	self.read_and_set_new_mesh()  # load unv file into FemMeshObject
	return error
```


### FemSetObject: base class to group submesh

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskCreateNodeSet.cpp] nodeset
```cpp
FemSetObject::FemSetObject()
{
    ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(FemMesh,(0), "MeshSet link",Prop_None,"MeshSet the set belongs to");
}
```
#### FemNodeSet as group of element for constraint

[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskCreateNodeSet.cpp] nodeset





## FemResult and VTK based post-processing pipeline

Notably, fem result can be view in `showResult` taskpanel, and also it can be exported as vtk file and viewed in paraview.

### VTK Pipeline

related files:

[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostObject.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostPipeline.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostFilter.h]
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemPostFunction.h]

Task panel and view providers in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui]

It could be thought of miniature paraview pipeline. Implemented in cpp only, perhaps for speed concern.


*****************************************************************************************

## PreferencePage

### Create preference page in C++

1. implemented related cpp and ui files:
- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFemGmsh.ui]
- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFemGmshImp.h]
- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/DlgSettingsFemGmshImp.cpp]

```cpp
#include "PreCompiled.h"

#include "Gui/Application.h"
#include "DlgSettingsFemGmshImp.h"
#include <Gui/PrefWidgets.h>

using namespace FemGui;

DlgSettingsFemGmshImp::DlgSettingsFemGmshImp( QWidget* parent )
  : PreferencePage( parent )
{
    this->setupUi(this);
}

DlgSettingsFemGmshImp::~DlgSettingsFemGmshImp()
{
    // no need to delete child widgets, Qt does it all for us
}

void DlgSettingsFemGmshImp::saveSettings()
{
    cb_gmsh_binary_std->onSave();
    fc_gmsh_binary_path->onSave();
}

void DlgSettingsFemGmshImp::loadSettings()
{
    cb_gmsh_binary_std->onRestore();
    fc_gmsh_binary_path->onRestore();
}

/**
 * Sets the strings of the subwidgets using the current language.
 */
void DlgSettingsFemGmshImp::changeEvent(QEvent *e)
{
    if (e->type() == QEvent::LanguageChange) {
    }
    else {
        QWidget::changeEvent(e);
    }
}

#include "moc_DlgSettingsFemGmshImp.cpp"
```

The implementation is surprisingly convenient, just calling  onSave() and onRestore() methods of standard PrefWidget defined in [src/Gui/PrefWidgets.h]. This UI file uses some FreeCAD costumed widgets, e.g.  `<widget class="Gui::PrefCheckBox" name="cb_int_editor">` Those PrefWidgets needs to be registered into QtDesigner. In short, You need to compile [src/Tools/plugins/widget] and register that library with Qt-designer in order to get the FreeCAD-specific widgets in Qt-designer."

2. register page in [Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp]

```cpp
// register preferences pages

 new Gui::PrefPageProducer<FemGui::DlgSettingsFemGeneralImp> (QT_TRANSLATE_NOOP("QObject","FEM"));

```

3. Icons of the Preference

"preferences-fem.svg" must be in icon search path, defined in [Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp]



### Create preference page in Python

[src/Gui/PrefWidgets.h] preference widgets are not wrapped into python, therefore, can not been used by Python

1. create a general QDialog class and implement `saveSettings(), loadSettings()`

```
class CfdPreferencePage:
    def __init__(self):
        ui_path = os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), "CfdPreferencePage.ui")
        self.form = FreeCADGui.PySideUic.loadUi(ui_path)
```

2. register this preference page in `InitGui.py`
```python
class CfdWorkbench(Workbench):
    "CFD workbench object"
    def __init__(self):
	#...
        import CfdPreferencePage
        FreeCADGui.addPreferencePage(CfdPreferencePage.CfdPreferencePage, "CFD")
```

3. Icons of the Preference

```python
from PySide import QtCore
ICONS_PATH = CfdTools.getModulePath() + "/Resources/icons"
QtCore.QDir.addSearchPath("icons", ICONS_PATH)
```

"preferences-cfd.png" or "preferences-cfd.svg" must be in icon search path
The icon file name pattern "preferences-<preference_name>"
