
# Developing CFD Module Based on FemWorkbench

## Design of CFD solver for FreeCAD

### Adding CFD analysis to FreeCAD

Solidworks provides not only FEM function, but also CFD function. See the [SolidWorks flow-simulation](http://www.solidworks.co.uk/sw/products/simulation/flow-simulation.htm). It is desirable that FreeCAD can have such a feature.

Instead of creating a new CFD or CAE module, I am trying to add CFD function to the the current Fem workbench and reuse most of the infrastructure.

See Appendix [FreeCAD From Fem workbench towards a full-fledged CAE workbench]()

CFD simulation needs a more complex setup and dedicated mesh, thereby, in FreeCAD engineering an accurate simulation is not the design aim. Importing a FreeCAD model into other pre-processing tools for meshing and tweaking the experiment setup many times, is needed for serious study.

### Literature Review

OpenFoam is not the only free open source CFD solver, but it is powerful. A free GUI case setup tool is missing (arguably).

It is not designed for windows, but usable via **Cygwin**: see **FreeFoam**. It is possible to add Cygwin to the PATH as `C:\cygwin\bin`, then run the solver from command line. Furthermore, it can be run in a container, or even the Ubuntu-on-Windows subsystem as in Windows 10.

Requirement anslysis: see appendix 
[FreeCAD combining the strength of FreeCAD and Salome](../proposal/FreeCAD combining the strength of FreeCAD and Salome.md)

Free Solver selection: External solver, it can potentially use a solver of any license.

### [Roadmap](https://github.com/qingfengxia/Cfd/Roadmap.md)

- Current limitation: FreeCAD FEM is designed only for MechanicalAnalysis and the Solver is tightly coupled with analysis object, not pluggable design. `JobControlTaskView` should be reusable by CFD solver after some refactoring work.

- Case writer is the primary task for function of CFD simulation

- FemMesh export into UNV format, but it does not export boundary condition.

- Only Solid mechanical material is defined in Material module, but no fluid material.

- `BoundaryCondition` for CFD is not defined, this could be derived from `Fem::Constraint`

- View result back to FreeCAD is highly challenging task, thus external

### Python or cplusplus ?

It is possible to extend function of `DocumentObject` and `ViewProvider` in Python. The Howto and limitation of developing modules in python has been discussed in the previous chapters.

Example code for type checking in cpp:

```cpp
(obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemSolverObject::getClassTypeId()))

assert analysis_obj.TypeId == "Fem::FemAnalysisPython"

analysis_obj.isDerivedFrom('')
```
> *TypeId* is string representation  
> *documentObj.Name* is binary representation  
> *Label* is unicode string


### Documentation and the Wiki

Detailed documentation and excellent code are equally important for the survival of Open Source projects. Thereby, users can enjoy a potentially smoother functioning program and new developers could be facilitated to extend/maintain the source code with greater ease.

For a workbench developer, it is good to have a page on FreeCAD that introduces ways to easily add features, documentation, and make progress undertaking this effort.

Ways to accomplish this:  
First of all, write a good in-source documentation and detailed README.md in the git repo.  
Secondly, publish the workbench on the FreeCAD wiki

1. Apply for a wiki account via forum private message, see [How to get wiki editing permissions](https://forum.freecadweb.org/viewtopic.php?f=21&t=6830)

2. Once approved, [read this before editing wiki pages](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/WikiPages)

3. Add an item to the [external workbenches section](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/External_workbenches),
not directly to [user hub](https://www.freecadweb.org/wiki/User_hub), which is for official (core) workbench

4. Add one unique page for the workbench itself. 


*******************************************************

## Design of Cfd Workbench

In this section, developing a workbench in python and extending c++ defined class is explained, for example, extending `FemSolverObject` into solver specific Python classes.

### Code re-usage from FEM workbench

- Fluid material is supported via `FemMaterial` in Fem Module  
  *`MechanicalMaterial.py` in Fem is refactored into a general material object for CAE. Material properties are grouped into mechanical, fluidic, and electromagnetic.
See [forum discussionTODO](). CfdWorkbench
- FemMesh and Netgen and Gmsh meshing taskpanel can be imported directly into CFD workbench
- VTK pipeline for post-processing

### C++ related code are committed directly to Fem module

- `FemSolverObject`: abstract `DocumentObject` for any CAE solver; concrete solver is developed in C++
- `FemConstraintFluidBoundary`: a single type to represent all boundary conditions in CFD: pressure, velocity, turbulence, and thermal
  * **Note**: see the later section on design and implementation of `FemConstraintFluidBoundary` in c++
- VTK mesh import and export
- CFD results exported as VTK file format for building up VTK pipe

### Init.py and InitGui.py

This is a pure python module/workbench. A template of empty workbench could be downloaded from Bernd' git:

- Load commands into workbench, which will load new python module as in cpp mode: `src/Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp`
- Add MenuItem and Toolbar items for this module
- Resource (icon files)
- Translation
- Example and testing
- CMake setting (module `CMakelists.txt` and a global option to activate CFD workbench)

As an addon module made in pure Python, no module `CMakeLists.txt` is needed. Just download this module folder 'Cfd' into `~/.FreeCAD/Mod/` or the FreeCAD installation `Mod/` subfolder.  

### CfdAnalysis.py

- `makeCfdAnalysis()` creates a `FemAnalysis` object within the current document, defined in `CfdAnalysis.py`
- No need to Extend `Fem::FemAnalysisObject` into `CfdAnalysis` class in python
- `ViewProviderCfdAnalysis` python class is necessary as double-click will activate CFD workbench


### CfdTools.py: utility and mesh export

UNV to foam, mesh renumbering, thereby, a result mesh is needed to show Result

<https://github.com/OpenFOAM/OpenFOAM-2.2.x/blob/master/applications/utilities/mesh/conversion/ideasUnvToFoam/ideasUnvToFoam.C>


### CfdRunnable.py: solver specific runner

This class and its derived, equal to FemTools.py family, hides solver specific implementation. Thereby, `TaskPanelCfdSolverControl` can be shared by any CFD solver.
The Cfd runnable write solver input file, run the solving process and finally load the result back to FreeCAD.

### FoamCaseWriter: write OpenFOAM case setting files

This class extracts information from FreeCAD GUI for `FoamCaseBuilder`, e.g. mesh, material, solver setup and boundary, while the actual case builder is done by `FoamCaseBuilder`

### FoamCaseBuilder: a python module to build OpenFOAM case

This is an independent python module, it will be developed in parallel with FreeCAD CFD workbench

- Export UNV mesh with boundary conditions FaceSet
- Case setup by setting boundary condition in workbench
- Case build up from scratch by generating OpenFOAM case setting files
- Case check or update case setup
- `TestBuilder.py` shows a tutorial about how to build a case via script once mesh file is ready

### CfdResult: to view result in FreeCAD

- `CfdResult.py`: This class only defines properties representing CFD result, pressure, velocity, temperature, etc.

It is extended from the c++ class: `FemResultObject`, shared by any CFD solver.

- `CfdResultFoamVTK.py`: load results from OpenFOAM solver

OpenFOAM result is exported in VTK legacy file, then read by python-vtk6 module to show as `FemResultObject` in FreeCAD.
Only scalers like pressure can be illustrated as different color in `FemMesh` nodes. Velocity vector will not be supported although `FemPostPipeline` is a promising solution.

This module will be re-implemented in c++ to save computation time, since CFD meshes are always huge.

- `TaskPanelCfdResult.py`: select scalar to be shown as colormap on `FemMesh` via modifying `ViewProviderFemMesh` properties


***********************************************************

## Create FemSovlerObject

### Why FemSolverObject is needed?

The Solver class provide information for QProcess to start external solver. It is mainly designed for CFD  for the moment, but any solver like Fem, could use it. Another commandline property could be added, or built from current property,so JobControlTaskPanel will be reused by renaming Calculix (QProcess Object) -> SolverProcessObject or like name. Although ccx works perfect now, we are not locked to only one Fem solver.


Solver should be pluggable, swappable. Analysis is a pure container (DocumentObjectGroup) to search for Mesh and Solver Object, from my perspective. Currently, some properties are added into AnalysisObjects, but in Salome or Ansys workbench, Solver is an object equal to Mesh. A lot of parameters, switches are needed to tweak solver, they are not belong to Analysis,but solver specific.


Define a SolverObject can do persistence and replay of solver setup, and work without GUI. SolverObject can be subclass in python to deal with specific solver.

### App::DocumentObject derived class: FemSovlerObject.h

[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.h], [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.cpp] are good templates for this new feature. Just copying and replacing, we are ready to make our own DocumentObject/Feature.

Different from *Fem::ConstraintFluidBoundary*, *Fem::SolverObject* has defined `Fem::SolverObjectPython` and `FemGui::ViewProviderSolverPython` via `FeaturePythonT` for convenient extension by python. DocumentObject for each specific solver, can store solver specific properties. ViewProvider for Each specific solver, e.g. `_ViewProviderFemSolverCalculix.py`, via proxy of `FemGui::ViewProviderSolverPython`, overrides the double-click event to bring up the TaskPanel coded in Python,i.e. `_TaskPanelFemSolverCalculix.py`.

How will FemSolver's properties be visible to Python ?
[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemResultObject.h] is a good example, it contains App::Property and has corresponding python class: [src/Mod/Fem/FemResultObjectTaskPanel.py]
DocumentObject's properties can be accessed in GUI, property view in combi view.


[src/Mod/Fem/App/FemSolverObject.cpp]
```cpp
#include <App/FeaturePythonPyImp.h>
#include <App/DocumentObjectPy.h>
...
namespace App {
/// @cond DOXERR
PROPERTY_SOURCE_TEMPLATE(Fem::FemSolverObjectPython, Fem::FemSolverObject)
template<> const char* Fem::FemSolverObjectPython::getViewProviderName(void) const {
    return "FemGui::ViewProviderSolverPython";
}
template<> PyObject* Fem::FemSolverObjectPython::getPyObject(void) {
    if (PythonObject.is(Py::_None())) {
        // ref counter is set to 1
        PythonObject = Py::Object(new App::FeaturePythonPyT<App::DocumentObjectPy>(this),true);
    }
    return Py::new_reference_to(PythonObject);
}

// explicit template instantiation
template class AppFemExport FeaturePythonT<Fem::FemSolverObject>;
```

- In the App folder, copy *FemResultObject.h* and *FemResultObject.cpp* into FemSovlerObject.h and FemSovlerObject.cpp

- Replace all occurrence of "ResultObject" with "SolverObject" in FemSovlerObject.h and FemSovlerObject.cpp

ViewProvider type must agree with definition in
```cpp
getViewProviderName(void) const {
    return "FemGui::ViewProviderSolverPython";
}
```

- Add some Properties into this FemSovlerObject class derived from DocumentObject if necessary

ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE macro function is defined in [src/App/PropertyContainer.h]
```
ADD_PROPERTY(_prop_, _defaultval_) , ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(_prop_, _defaultval_, _group_,_type_,_Docu_)
```
It is decided to add all properties in python, thereby, c++ class has no properties in cpp.

- Add type initialisation and header inclusion into  *FemApp.cpp* for both cpp and python types

```cpp
#include "FemSolverObject.h"
...
    Fem::FemSolverObject            ::init();
    Fem::FemSolverObjectPython      ::init();
```
- add these 2 files into  in *App/CMakeList.txt*

### Gui part: ViewProviderSolver

- in Gui folder, copy `ViewProviderResult.h` and `ViewProviderResult.cpp` into `ViewProviderSolver.h` and `ViewProviderSolver.cpp`

- replace all occurrence of "Result" with "Solver" in ViewProviderSolver.h and ViewProviderSolver.cpp

- no special render in 3D viewer for  ViewProviderSolver class, derived from ViewProvider

- Make sure this object can be dragged into FemAnalysis
FemAnalysis is derived from DocumentObjectGroup
see [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/ViewProviderFemAnalysis.cpp]
`bool ViewProviderFemAnalysis::canDragObject(App::DocumentObject* obj) const`
```
#include "FemSolverObject.h"
...
    else if (obj->getTypeId().isDerivedFrom(Fem::FemSolverObject::getClassTypeId()))
        return true;
```

- taskview to be coded in python to edit solver property and run the solver
like "AnalysisType", "CaseName", etc.

- add type initialisation and header inclusion into  *FemGuiApp.cpp*

```cpp
#include "ViewProviderSolver.h"
...
    FemGui::ViewProviderSolver                 ::init();
    FemGui::ViewProviderSolverPython           ::init();
```

- add these 2 files into  in *Gui/CMakeList.txt*


### Command to add FemSolver to FemWorkbench

**This section does not reflect the current code condition**

FemSolverObject will be extended in python, hence toolbar or menuItem are only created for specific solver like Calculix Solver. The following code is only a demo if implemented in cpp.

- add MenuItem and ToolBarItem to FemWorkbench (should be removed)
by adding new class FemSolverCommand.
[src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Command.cpp] the closest command class is *CmdFemConstraintBearing*

```
#include <Mod/Fem/App/FemSolverObject.h>

DEF_STD_CMD_A(CmdFemCreateSolver);
...
```

- add cmd class into workbench

```cpp
void CreateFemCommands(void){
{
    Gui::CommandManager &rcCmdMgr = Gui::Application::Instance->commandManager();
    ...
    rcCmdMgr.addCommand(new CmdFemCreateSolver());
```

- [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Workbench.cpp]

```cpp
Gui::ToolBarItem* Workbench::setupToolBars() const
{
    Gui::ToolBarItem* root = StdWorkbench::setupToolBars();
    Gui::ToolBarItem* fem = new Gui::ToolBarItem(root);
    fem->setCommand("FEM");
    ...
         << "Fem_CreateSolver"
   ...
Gui::MenuItem* Workbench::setupMenuBar() const
{
    Gui::MenuItem* root = StdWorkbench::setupMenuBar();
    Gui::MenuItem* item = root->findItem("&Windows");
    Gui::MenuItem* fem = new Gui::MenuItem;
    root->insertItem(item, fem);
    fem->setCommand("&FEM");
    ...
         << "Fem_CreateSolver"
```

- add new SVG icon file "fem-solver.svg" in Gui/Resource

- add "fem-solver.svg" file into  Fem.qrc XML file
<https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/resources.html>
resource icon images are built into bindary file FemGui.so or FemGui.dll.
cmake has one line to rebuilt resources.

- add or update Translation. This is temporarily left behind, until the code is stable.

- `git add <the above newly added file>`
If you forget to work in a branch, you can
` git stash branch testchanges`
see <https://git-scm.com/book/en/v1/Git-Tools-Stashing>

************************************************************

## Boundary condition settings for CFD

### Design of FemConstraintFluidBoundary

Class `Fem::ConstraintFluidBoundary` should be derived from `FemConstraint` and adapted from some concrete class like `FemConstraintFixed`, to reduce the work. As python has limitation, e.g. Coin3D scene, there must be coded in C++. The closest class is `FemConstraintForce`, which is derived from `FemConstraint`, except no PythonFeature, but adding TaskPanel.

Modelled after CFX, a commercial CFD tool, boundary conditions are grouped into 5 categories, inlet, outlet, symmetry, wall, opening (freestream/far field in other tools). `BoundaryType` Combobox is used to select from the categories. For each categories, there is another combobox for `Subtype`, e.g. inlet and outlet has different valueType: pressure, flowrate, velocity, etc. A task panel containing properties like:  `Value, Direction, Reversed`, could be hidden if no value is needed for any specific boundary subtype.

"Symmetry" should be named more generally as "interface", which can be any special boundaries: wedge(axisymmetry), empty(front and back face for 2D domain, single layer 3D mesh), coupled(FSI coupling interface), symmetry, interior (baffle), processor(interface for domain decomposition), cyclic ( Enables two patches to be treated as if they are physically connected), etc.

inlet {totalPressure, velocity, flowrate}
outlet {pressure, velocity, inletOutlet}
wall {fixed, moving, slip}
freestream {freestream}
interface {empty, symmetry, cyclic, wedge}

Only uniform value boundary type is supported in GUI, user should edit the case file for OpenFOAM supported csv or function object non-uniform boundary.

The turbulent inlet and thermal boundary condition is editable in the tab of boundary condition, which is accessed by tab in boundary control panel

Other solver control, like gravity, reference pressure,  is the internal field initialisation/body force for pressure and velocity.


### procedure of adding ConstraintFluidBoundary class

- DocumentObject  `Fem::ConstraintFluidBoundary`
- add file names into `App/CMakeList.txt`
- type initialisaton `App/FemApp.cpp`
- ViewProvider   `FemGui::ViewProviderConstraintFluidBoundary`
- TaskPanel and ui ``
- add file names `Gui/CMakeList.txt`
- type initialisaton `Gui/FemGuiApp.cpp`
- add svg icon file and update XML resource file `Fem.qrc`
- add menuItem in FemWorkbench  <Gui/Command.cpp> and <Gui/Workbench.cpp>


### FemConstraintFluidBoundary.h and FemConstraintFluidBoundary.cpp

replace name "FemContraintForce" -> "FemConstraintFluidBoundary"

Add new properties "BoundaryType","Subtype", etc,  in corresponding header and cpp files

```
#include <App/PropertyStandard.h>
...
    App::PropertyEnum BoundaryType;
    App::PropertyEnum Subtype;
    App::PropertyFloat BoundaryValue; // rename "Force" into "BoundaryValue"
```

Following code should be added to function `void ConstraintFluidBoundary::onChanged(const App::Property* prop)` to update the Subtype enums in property editor once BoundaryType is changed.

```
    if (prop == &BoundaryType) {
        std::string boundaryType = prop.getValueAsString();
        if (boundaryType == "wall")
        {
            Subtype.setEnums(WallSubtypes);
        }
        else if (boundaryType == "interface")
        {
            Subtype.setEnums(InterfaceSubtypes);
        }
        else if (boundaryType == "freestream")
        {
            Subtype.setEnums(FreestreamSubtypes);
        }
        else if(boundaryType == "inlet" || boundaryType == "outlet")
        {
            Subtype.setEnums(InletSubtypes);
        }
        else
        {
            Base::Console().Message("Error: this boundaryType is not defined\n");
        }
    }
```

Definition of the Macro:
```
ADD_PROPERTY_TYPE(BoundaryType,(1),"ConstraintFluidBoundary",(App::PropertyType)(App::Prop_None),
              "Basic boundary type like inlet, wall, outlet,etc");
```
This a macro function, some parameter must be embraced with parenthesis, like varialbe with namespace `(App::Prop_None)`.
The second parameter can not be zero `(0)`.

For `setEnums(const char**)`  at least 2 enums are needed, e.g. `subtypes = {"A", "B", NULL};`

register `Fem::ConstraintFluidBoundary` and type `init()` in [src/Mod/Fem/App/FemApp.cpp]

### ViewProviderConstraintFluidBoundary.h

(changed combobox type should trigger a redraw)
Only outlet, will show arrow as `FemConstrainForce`, inlet has the arrow but in reverse direction (flow into the geometry)
Other boundary types will shows as `FemConstrainFixed`. However, simply merging codes of two viewProviders into `ViewProviderFemConstraintFluidBoundary.cpp` does not work properly.  

`void ViewProviderFemConstraintFluidBoundary::updateData(const App::Property* prop)` only update property data, while actural drawing is done in base class method: `ViewProviderFemConstraint::updateData(prop);`

```
//change color to distinguish diff subtype
App::PropertyColor          FaceColor;

// comment out *createCone* will make draw "interface" type and "freestream" type of fluid boundary
void ViewProviderFemConstraint::createFixed(SoSeparator* sep, const double height, const double width, const bool gap)
{
    createCone(sep, height-width/4, height-width/4);
    createPlacement(sep, SbVec3f(0, -(height-width/4)/2-width/8 - (gap ? 1.0 : 0.1) * width/8, 0), SbRotation());
    createCube(sep, width, width, width/4);
}
```

adding header and  init function into [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/AppFemGui.cpp]
This module is not designed to be extended in python as other FemConstraint class, thereby only cpp type are declared.
```
#include "ViewProviderFemConstraintFluidBoundary.h"
...
PyMODINIT_FUNC initFemGui()
{
    FemGui::ViewProviderFemConstraintFluidBoundary          ::init();
```

### TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary

- copy from nearest file to create: `TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary.h` and `TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary.cpp`,
- getters for newly added properties should be added. e.g. `double getForce(void) const;` is replaced with `getBoundaryType(void) const`
- property changed signal slots: `void onForceChanged(double);` slot is replaced, and
`bool TaskDlgFemConstraintFluidBoundary::accept()`
"Force" is replaced by "BoundaryValue"

Note: event will not fired, if wrong slot function signature is specified in connection()

Only face can be selected as fluid boundary, via removing edge selection in `void TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary::onSelectionChanged(const Gui::SelectionChanges& msg)`

`TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary.ui`
when create new ui file from an existent ui file, make sure the toplevel object name is also properly renamed in Qdesigner.
Event is not defined in this ui file, but [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/TaskFemConstraintFluidBoundary.cpp]

### svg icon "fem-fluid-boundary" and update Fem.qrc,

I use **inkscape** to make new svg icon for this class and add file name into [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Resources/Fem.qrc]

###  GUI menubar and toolbar: Command.cpp and Workbench.cpp

in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Command.cpp] file, a new command class *CmdFemConstraintFluidBoundary*.
Also  `rcCmdMgr.addCommand(new CmdFemConstraintFluidBoundary());` must be added in in `void CreateFemCommands(void)` at the end of this file.
Otherwise, error "Unknown command 'Fem_ConstraintFluidBoundary'" will print in your Console.

in [src/Mod/Fem/Gui/Workbench.cpp] both Toolbar and MenuBar should be updated, otherwise the GUI will not shown up.



**************************************************************





## Example of extending FemSolverObject in python

### Procedure for extending FeaturePythonT object

`CfdSolverFoam.py  _FemSolverCalculix.py`

- add dialog UI into update property of `FemSolverObject`

- design `TaskPanelCfdSolverControl.ui` dialog GUI form by QtDesigner

- add `_TaskPanelCfdSolverControl` python class

- add `ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam python` class

- Macro replay/ document import should work now.

update CMakeList.txt and resource

- add new files into  in *Gui/CMakeList.txt*
- deprecated class  _FemAnalysis _ViewProviderFemAnalysis  (feature dropped)
- rename and refactoring of _JobControlTaskPanel.py (feature dropped)
- create new icons file


### code for extending FeaturePythonT object


`makeCfdSolverFoam` is the magic connection between cpp class and Python class. It returns a document object derived type
"Fem::FemSolverObjectPython", which is defined in c++ using FeatureT template. Extra properties can be added by `CfdSolverFoam(obj)` constructor.
Furthermore, ViewProvider can be extended by `_ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam` python class.

```
def makeCfdSolverFoam(name="OpenFOAM"):
    obj = FreeCAD.ActiveDocument.addObject("Fem::FemSolverObjectPython", name)
    CfdSolverFoam(obj)
    if FreeCAD.GuiUp:
        from _ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam import _ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam
        _ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam(obj.ViewObject)
    return obj
```

CfdSolver is a generic class for any CFD solver, defining shared properties
```
class CfdSolver(object):
    def __init__(self, obj):
        self.Type = "CfdSolver"
        self.Object = obj  # keep a ref to the DocObj for nonGui usage
        obj.Proxy = self  # link between Fem::FemSolverObjectPython to this python object

	# API: addProperty(self,type,name='',group='',doc='',attr=0,readonly=False,hidden=False)
        obj.addProperty("App::PropertyEnumeration", "TurbulenceModel", "CFD",
                            "Laminar,KE,KW,LES,etc")
        obj.TurbulenceModel = list(supported_turbulence_models)
        obj.TurbulenceModel = "laminar"

```

OpenFOAM specific properties go into `CfdSolverFoam`


```
class CfdSolverFoam(CfdSolver.CfdSolver):
    def __init__(self, obj):
        super(CfdSolverFoam, self).__init__(obj)
        self.Type = "CfdSolverFoam"
```

`_ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam` is needed to double click and bring up a TaskPanel
Although "_TaskPanelCfdSolverControl" can be shared by any cfd solver, but each CFD solver needs a solver-specific CfdRunner

**_ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam.py**
```
import FreeCAD
import FreeCADGui
import FemGui

class _ViewProviderCfdSolverFoam:
    """A View Provider for the Solver object, base class for all derived solver
    derived solver should implement  a specific TaskPanel and set up solver and override setEdit()
    """

    def __init__(self, vobj):
        vobj.Proxy = self

    def getIcon(self):
        """after load from FCStd file, self.icon does not exist, return constant path instead"""
        return ":/icons/fem-solver.svg"

    def attach(self, vobj):
        self.ViewObject = vobj
        self.Object = vobj.Object

    def updateData(self, obj, prop):
        return

    def onChanged(self, vobj, prop):
        return

    def doubleClicked(self, vobj):
        if FreeCADGui.activeWorkbench().name() != 'CfdWorkbench':
            FreeCADGui.activateWorkbench("CfdWorkbench")
        doc = FreeCADGui.getDocument(vobj.Object.Document)
        if not doc.getInEdit():
            # may be go the other way around and just activate the analysis the user has doubleClicked on ?!
            if FemGui.getActiveAnalysis():
                if FemGui.getActiveAnalysis().Document is FreeCAD.ActiveDocument:
                    if self.Object in FemGui.getActiveAnalysis().Member:
                        doc.setEdit(vobj.Object.Name)
                    else:
                        FreeCAD.Console.PrintError('Activate the analysis this solver belongs to!\n')
                else:
                    FreeCAD.Console.PrintError('Active Analysis is not in active Document!\n')
            else:
                FreeCAD.Console.PrintError('No active Analysis found!\n')
        else:
            FreeCAD.Console.PrintError('Active Task Dialog found! Please close this one first!\n')
        return True

    def setEdit(self, vobj, mode):
        if FemGui.getActiveAnalysis():
            from CfdRunnableFoam import CfdRunnableFoam
            foamRunnable = CfdRunnableFoam(FemGui.getActiveAnalysis(), self.Object)
            from _TaskPanelCfdSolverControl import _TaskPanelCfdSolverControl
            taskd = _TaskPanelCfdSolverControl(foamRunnable)
            taskd.obj = vobj.Object

            FreeCADGui.Control.showDialog(taskd)
        return True

    def unsetEdit(self, vobj, mode):
        FreeCADGui.Control.closeDialog()
        return

    def __getstate__(self):
        return None

    def __setstate__(self, state):
        return None
```

=====================================================

## Develop a new CFD solver within CFD workbench

<https://github.com/qingfengxia/Cfd>
This workbench is designed to fit in more solvers. To solve CFD problem in other solvers, you may reuse some of the code in CfdWorkbench, which is a split from FemWorkbench. FluidMaterial.py has several implementation, currently needs a unification. FemConstraintFluidBoundary.cpp can be reused for common CFD boundary types

For example (not yet implemented)

+ CfdSolverElmer.py  
 derived from CfdSolver which defined most of setting for CFD, include elmer specific settings, example are CfdSolverFoam.py
+ CfdCaseWriterElmer.py  
 expose only a write_case() method. write_mesh (which should be similar as Bernd has done)and write boundary condition
+ CfdRunnableElmer.py  
 call the calculation and retrieve the result and display, CfdSolverControl task panel can be reused with tiny modification

+ then add _CommandCfdSolverElmer.py _ViewProviderCfdSolverElmer.py, icon svg file can be adapted from *Foam.py  
  add into CfdWorkbench via InitGui.py

+CfdResultVTKElmer.py  
 load result . currently this piece of code (CfdResult and taskpanel) is under review, there is no need to
